.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to
.\"
.\" Prince Williams
.\" prince@princebot.com
.\" https://github.com/princebot/gitbucket_ctl
.\"
.\" Last Change: Sat Sep 12
.\"
.mso www.tmac
.TH GITBUCKET_CTL 1 "2015-09-12" "github.com/princebot/gitbucket_ctl" \
                "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gitbucket \- management utility for GitBucket Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B gitbucket
.BR help | install | restart | uninstall | upgrade
.P
.B gitbucket start
.RB "[[" host=\fIHOST "] [" port=\fIPORT "] [" data=\fIDIRECTORY "]]"
.P
.B gitbucket stop
.RI "[" PID " [" PID... "]]"
.P
.B gitbucket status
.RI "[" PID " [" PID... "]]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B gitbucket
is a management utility that adds easy command-line management to
.BR "GitBucket Server" ,
enabling you to quickly stop and start
.BR "GitBucket Server" ,
get information on running instances, and install, uninstall, or update
.B GitBucket Server
with short init-style commands. Additionally,
.B gitbucket
wraps
.B GitBucket Server
with simple logging and log rotation.
.P
.B GitBucket Server
.URL https://github.com/takezoe/gitbucket
is an awesome GitHub-clone that\[cq]s dead-simple to use --- no
database set-up, no web-server configuration, just a single .WAR file you can
run directly using command-line arguments. This
.B gitbucket control script
was created by a happy and appreciative
.B GitBucket Server
user for his own use, and it\[cq]s been publicly released so that others can
easily spin up and tear down
.B GitBucket Server
instances for quick-and-dirty local code-sharing in situations where public
code repos may be inappropriate (for example, at work) or where the situation
really shouldn\[cq]t require more effort than this:
.sp
.in +7
.B gitbucket install && gitbucket start
.sp
.in +7
if
.B the server is not already installed, or
is not already installed, or
.sp
.in -7
.B gitbucket start
.sp
.in +7
if you already have it.
.sp
.in -14
.P
It\[cq]s that easy:
.B gitbucket
makes an already user-friendly application absurdly simple to use.
.P Installation only needs to be done once.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 7
.BR help ", "-h ", " -help ", " --help
Display this man page.
.TP
.B install
Download and install/reinstall GitBucket Server.
.TP
.B restart
Stop all GitBucket Server instances, then start one instance using default
settings.
.TP
.BR start " [[" host=\fIHOST "] [" port=\fIPORT "] [" data=\fIDIRECTORY "]]"
Start a new GitBucket Server instance. When called without arguments, use these
default settings:
.sp
.in +7
.B host=localhost
.br
.B port=8080
.br
.B home=~/.gitbucket
.in -7
.TP
.IR \fBstatus " [" PID " [" PID... "]]"
Report status of GitBucket Server. When called without arguments, show all
server instances started by this script; otherwise, show all instances with
the specified process IDs. Return exit code 1 if no running instances found.
.TP
.IR \fBstop " [" PID " [" PID... "]]"
Stop GitBucket Server instances. When called without arguments, stop all
instances started by this script; otherwise, stop all instances with the
specified process IDs.
.TP
.B remove
.br
.in -7
.B uninstall
.br
.in +7
Remove GitBucket Server. Prompt to also remove GitBucket Server data directory
and this management utility.
.TP
.B update
.br
.in -7
.B upgrade
.br
.in +7
Update to latest GitBucket Server release.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/opt/gitbucket
Installation directory created by
.BR "gitbucket install" .
.TP
.I ~/opt/gitbucket/gitbucket.war
GitBucket Server program file.
.TP
.I ~/opt/gitbucket/logs
Directory created by this utility for GitBucket Server logfiles.
.TP
.I ~/.gitbucket
Default location for GitBucket data files.
.br
You can specify another location at server start using command-line options:
.sp
.in +7
.BI "gitbucket start home=" NEW-DATA-DIRECTORY\fR.
.in -7
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 21
.PD 0
.URL https://github.com/princebot/gitbucket "this control script:"
.TP
.URL https://github.com/takezoe/gitbucket "gitbucket server:"
.PD
